---
title: 'Understanding Object Passing in Golang: Maps, Slices, and Structs'
date: 2020-08-14
permalink: /posts/2020/08/go/
tags:
  - golang
---


In Go programming, understanding how various objects like maps, slices, and structs are passed around is crucial for writing efficient and reliable code. Let's delve into these common data structures and explore how they behave when passed as arguments.

## Maps

Maps in Go are reference types. When passed as arguments to functions, they are passed by reference. This means the function receives a copy of the reference to the underlying data structure, not a copy of the entire map itself. Any modifications made to the map within the function will reflect in the original map.

```go
func modifyMap(m map[string]int) {
    m["a"] = 10
}

func main() {
    original := map[string]int{"a": 1, "b": 2}
    modifyMap(original)
    fmt.Println(original) // Output: map[a:10 b:2]
}
```
## Slices

Slices in Go are passed by value, not by reference. When passed as arguments to functions, a copy of the slice header is made, which includes a pointer to the underlying array, the slice length, and capacity. Modifying elements within the slice in the function will affect the original slice, but assigning a new slice to the function parameter will not affect the original outside the function.

```go
func modifySlice(s []int) {
    s[0] = 100
}

func main() {
    original := []int{1, 2, 3}
    modifySlice(original)
    fmt.Println(original) // Output: [100 2 3]
}
```


## Structs

Unlike maps and slices, structs are value types in Go. When passed as arguments, a copy of the entire struct is made and passed to the function. This ensures that modifications to the struct within the function do not affect the original struct outside of it.

```go
type Person struct {
    Name string
    Age  int
}

func modifyStruct(p Person) {
    p.Age = 30
}

func main() {
    original := Person{Name: "Alice", Age: 25}
    modifyStruct(original)
    fmt.Println(original) // Output: {Alice 25}
}
```


------
